# Arithmetic: A Programmatic Approach

What is [linked](project.pdf) is a reformulation of the elementary parts of number theory and linear algebra in terms of a system of procedures for achieving particular objectives, objectives like showing that modular exponentiation of a specific integer with specific properties yields a stated result. So, while formal mathematics usually takes the format of definition-theorem-proof, this project has the format of declaration-procedure objective-procedure implementation. So where there usually would have been a statement and proof of Euler's totient theorem, procedure 1.50 is provided, and where there would have been a definition of Euler's totient function, declaration 1.16 is provided.

At this point the natural question is that of how we are to know that the following procedure implementations achieve the corresponding procedure objectives for all inputs. Well, strictly speaking, the only way to know that the following procedures always achieve their respective objectives is to actually execute them on all possible inputs and actually verify that the objective is met. However, when the input can be any integer, this proposal is in-principle not possible. So the actual question is that of how we can see the *potential* of the following procedure implementations to achieve their respective objectives on different inputs, that is, of how we can get that feeling that if the input is changed to this or that, the objective should still be achieved. And the answer to this question is that we can see the potential of the following procedure implementations by simply looking at their (purposefully chosen) syntax in the same way that we can simply see from the syntax of the code fragment, "`if a=b and b=c, then verify that a=c, otherwise verify that a!=c`", the potential of the instructions to be carried out successfully on different integer inputs.
		
For the purposes of storage and transmission of knowledge pertaining to the elementary parts of number theory and linear algebra, the following procedures are interchangeable with their analogous proofs in the sense that, assuming equal competence in programming and proving, if you have the procedure objective and implementation, you can trivially generate the analogous theorem and proof, and if you are in possession of the theorem and proof, then you can trivially generate the analogous procedure objective and implementation.
